[ADD] Employees: new departments doc (#9442)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/employees/departments.rst

===========
Departments
===========

All employees in the *Employees* app fall under specific departments within a company.

Departments dashboard
=====================

To view the currently configured departments, navigate to :menuselection:`Employees app -->
Departments`. All departments appear in a Kanban view, by default, and are listed in alphabetical
order.

.. image:: departments/departments.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The departments dashboard view with all the department cards in a Kanban view.

Department card details
-----------------------

> Each department has its own Kanabn card on the main *Departments* dashboard view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each department has its own Kanabn card on the main :guilabel:`Departments` dashboard view.
```

- :guilabel:`Time Off Requests`: the number of unapproved time off requests for employees in the
  department :ref:`awaiting approval <time_off/manage-time-off>` . This **only** appears if there
  are requests to approve.
- :guilabel:`Allocation Requests`: the number of unapproved allocation requests for employees in the
  department :ref:`awaiting approval <time_off/manage-allocations>`. This **only** appears if there
  are requests to approve.
- :guilabel:`New Applicants`: the number of :ref:`new applicants <recruitment/new>` for a position
  in this department. This **only** appears if there are new applicants.
- :guilabel:`Expense Reports`: the number of employees in the department with :ref:`open expense
  reports to approve <expenses/approve>`. This **only** appears if there are any expense reports
  waiting for approval.
- :guilabel:`Absence`: the number of absences for the current day.
- :guilabel:`Color bar`: the selected color for the department appears as a vertical bar on the
  left side of the department card.

.. important::
   When clicking on an alert in a department card, such as :guilabel:`Time Off Requests`, any other

>    alerts pending for the user to approve, including from other departments, appear in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   alerts pending for the user to approve, including alerts from other departments, appear in the list.
```

Dashboard views
---------------

The default view for the :guilabel:`Departments` dashboard is a Kanban view. It is possible to view
the departments in two other forms: a list view and a hierarchy view.

List view
~~~~~~~~~

> To view the departments in a list view, click the :icon:`fa-align-justify` :guilabel:`(List)` icon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the departments in a list view, click the :icon:`fa-align-justify` :guilabel:`list` icon
```

in the top-right corner. The departments appear in a list view, which displays the
:guilabel:`Department Name`, :guilabel:`Company`, :guilabel:`Manager`, :guilabel:`Employees`,
:guilabel:`Parent Department`, and :guilabel:`Color` for each department.

The departments are sorted alphabetically by :guilabel:`Department Name`, by default.

.. image:: departments/list.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The departments presented in a list view.

Hierarchy view
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To view the departments in a hierarchy view, click the :icon:`fa-share-alt fa-rotate-90`

> :guilabel:`(Hierarchy)` icon in the top-right corner. The departments appear in an organizational

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`hierarchy` icon in the top-right corner. The departments appear in an organizational
```

> chart format, with the highest-level department at the top (typically Management), and all other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chart format, with the highest-level department at the top (typically :guilabel:`Management`), and all other
```

departments beneath it. All child departments of the first-level child departments are folded.

> Each department card displays the :guilabel:`Department Name`, the :guilabel:`Manager` and their
> photo, the :guilabel:`Number of Employees` in the department, and the ability to expand the
> department (:guilabel:`Unfold`) if there are child departments beneath it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each department card displays the :guilabel:`Department Name`, the :guilabel:`Manager` (and their
profile icon), the :guilabel:`Number of Employees` in the department, and the ability to expand the
department (:guilabel:`Unfold`) if there are child departments beneath it.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Unfold` button on a department card to expand it. Once expanded, the
:guilabel:`Unfold` button changes to a :guilabel:`Fold` button. To collapse the department, click
the :guilabel:`Fold` button. Only **one** department *per row* can be unfolded at a time.

.. image:: departments/hierarchy.png
 :align: center
 :alt: The departments presented in a hierarchy view.

Click anywhere on a department card to open the department form. Click the :guilabel:`(#) Employees`

> button to view a list of all the employees in that department, including all employees in the child

Reviewer: ```suggestion
smart button to view a list of all the employees in that department, including all employees in the child
```

departments beneath it, organized by individual department.

.. example::
   In the hierarchy view, if the :guilabel:`(#) Employees` button on the :guilabel:`Management` card
   is clicked (the highest-level department card), **all** employees appear in a list view,
   organized by department. This is because **all** departments are children of the
   :guilabel:`Management` department.

   If the :guilabel:`(#) Employees` button in the :guilabel:`Sales` department card is clicked, the

>    employees from the :guilabel:`Sales` department, as well as the two child departments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   employees from the :guilabel:`Sales` department, as well as its two child departments
```

:guilabel:`New` in the top-left to reveal a blank department form. Fill out the following
information on the department form:

.. image:: departments/department-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The department for with all fields filled out.

- :guilabel:`Department Name`: enter a name for the department.
- :guilabel:`Manager`: using the drop-down menu, select the department manager.
- :guilabel:`Parent Department`: if the new department is housed within another department (has a
  parent department), select the parent department using the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Custom Appraisal Templates`: if employees in this department require a specific
  appraisal form that is different from the default appraisal form, tick the checkbox. If this
  option is activated, an :guilabel:`Appraisal Survey` field appears on the form, and an
  :guilabel:`Appraisal Templates` tab appears below the form. This field **only** appears if the
  *Appraisals* app is installed, and the *360 Feedback* option is enabled in the settings. Refer to
  the :doc:`../appraisals` documentation for more information.
- :guilabel:`Company`: using the drop-down menu, select the company the department is part of.

> - :guilabel:`Color`: select a color for the department. Click the default white color box to display

Reviewer: since you *do* mention/explain the 'Appraisal Templates' tab (which is only visible when the 'Custom Appraisal Templates' checkbox is ticked), you may want to consider briefly mentioning/explaining the 'Appraisal Survey' field -- which, actually, in the 17.0 runbot I am using, appears regardless of whether the checkbox for 'Custom Appraisal Templates' has been ticked. So, you'll probably want to conduct a quick double-check on that for accuracy during your revisions. Thanks! 👍

  all the color options. Click on a color to select it.
- :guilabel:`Appraisal Templates` tab: make any desired edits to the appraisal form. The appraisal

>   form will be used for appraisals for all employees within this department.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  form is used for appraisals for all employees within this department.
```

> After the form is completed, click the :icon:`fa-cloud-upload` :guilabel:`(cloud upload)` icon to
> save the changes. When saved, a :guilabel:`Department Organization` chart appears in the top-right
> of the department card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the form is completed, click the :icon:`fa-cloud-upload` :guilabel:`(cloud upload)` icon to
manually save the changes, or allow Odoo to auto-save the changes. When saved, a :guilabel:`Department Organization` chart appears in the top-right
of the department card.
```

folded.

Each department card displays the :guilabel:`Department Name`, the :guilabel:`Manager` (and their
profile icon), the :guilabel:`Number of Employees` in the department, and the ability to expand the
department (:guilabel:`Unfold`) if there are child departments beneath it.

Click the :guilabel:`Unfold` button on a department card to expand it. Once expanded, the
:guilabel:`Unfold` button changes to a :guilabel:`Fold` button. To collapse the department, click
the :guilabel:`Fold` button. Only **one** department *per row* can be unfolded at a time.

.. image:: departments/hierarchy.png
 :align: center
 :alt: The departments presented in a hierarchy view.

Click anywhere on a department card to open the department form. Click the :guilabel:`(#) Employees`
smart button to view a list of all the employees in that department, including all employees in the
child departments beneath it, organized by individual department.

.. example::
   In the hierarchy view, if the :guilabel:`(#) Employees` button on the :guilabel:`Management` card
   is clicked (the highest-level department card), **all** employees appear in a list view,

>    organized by department. This is because **all** departments are children of the

Reviewer 2: Let's use "grouped" instead of "organized" to be consistent with the grouping and filtering terminology across Odoo
```suggestion
   grouped by department. This is because **all** departments are children of the
```

   :guilabel:`Management` department.

>    If the :guilabel:`(#) Employees` button in the :guilabel:`Sales` department card is clicked, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If the :guilabel:`3 Employees` button in the :guilabel:`Sales` department card is clicked, the
```

   employees from the :guilabel:`Sales` department, as well as its two child departments
   (:guilabel:`East Coast Territory` and :guilabel:`West Coat Territory`), appear in the list.

> 

Reviewer 2: Move image here from the above section so it is part of the relevant example 
```suggestion

   .. image:: departments/hierarchy.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The departments presented in a hierarchy view.

```

   .. image:: departments/employee-list.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The list view of employees for the department that was clicked, including all child
            departments.

> Create new departments
> ======================
> 
> To make a new department, navigate to :menuselection:`Employees app --> Departments`, then click
> :guilabel:`New` in the top-left to reveal a blank department form. Fill out the following
> information on the department form:
> 
> .. image:: departments/department-form.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: The department for with all fields filled out.
> 
> - :guilabel:`Department Name`: enter a name for the department.
> - :guilabel:`Manager`: using the drop-down menu, select the department manager.
> - :guilabel:`Parent Department`: if the new department is housed within another department (has a
>   parent department), select the parent department using the drop-down menu.
> - :guilabel:`Custom Appraisal Templates`: if employees in this department require a specific
>   appraisal form that is different from the default appraisal form, tick the checkbox. If this
>   option is activated, an :guilabel:`Appraisal Templates` tab appears below the form. This field
>   **only** appears if the *Appraisals* app is installed. Refer to the :doc:`../appraisals`
>   documentation for more information.
> - :guilabel:`Company`: using the drop-down menu, select the company the department is part of.
> - :guilabel:`Appraisal Survey`: using the drop-down menu, select the default survey to use for the
>   department when requesting feedback from employees. This field **only** appears if the
>   *Appraisals* app is installed, **and** the *360 Feedback* option is enabled in the settings. Refer
>   to the :doc:`../appraisals` documentation for more information.
> - :guilabel:`Color`: select a color for the department. Click the default white color box to display
>   all the color options. Click on a color to select it.
> - :guilabel:`Appraisal Templates` tab: this tab **only** appears if the :guilabel:`Custom Appraisal
>   Templates` options is activated on the form. Make any desired edits to the appraisal form. The
>   appraisal form is used for appraisals for all employees within this department.
> 
> After the form is completed, click the :icon:`fa-cloud-upload` :guilabel:`(cloud upload)` icon to
> manually save the changes. When saved, a :guilabel:`Department Organization` chart appears in the
> top-right of the department card.
> 
> .. note::
>    The form auto-saves while data is entered, however the :guilabel:`Department Organization` chart
>    does **not** appear until the form is manually saved. If the form is not saved, the
>    :guilabel:`Department Organization` chart is visible upon opening the department card from the
>    :guilabel:`Departments` dashboard.

Reviewer 2: Suggested to move this section to the top :)
```suggestion
```
